In the last section we finished up our spinner component so we can place the spinner anywhere specify
the size that we want and the spinners should appear on the screen centered in the horizontal direction
because we added in some styling to make sure that's the case.
We'll now flip over to our blog and forum file and make sure that we show this video inside of here.
So our goal or what we have to figure out how to do is we have to say that whenever a user clicks on
the button whenever they click on this thing attempting to log in I want to hide this button and instead
I want to show that spinner.
So that's the goal here.
I need to either show this button or show the spinner.
So what I'm really talking about doing here is I'm talking about kind of remembering the component on
the fly with some amount of different content.
Right.
And so again whenever I say reminder you got to be thinking about state that is how we cause our component
to re render.
So I suggest that we add in a new piece of state to its component called loading and loading should
be a boolean.
Whenever the Boullion loading is false that means that we are not making every correct request you know
we're not trying to sign user end.
And so we should show the button on the screen but whenever the button or whenever that piece of state
of loading is true that means that we must be attempting to log the user in.
And so it can show the spinner on the screen instead of the button.
Guess that's going to be our goal here.
So again whenever we use state we were we will first default our property.
So I will add on a loading piece of state called false or X-C with the value falls excuse me.
So by default I am not loading anything.
I'm not attempting to make a request.
So by default on the first renderers we have loading of false next when we start to issue our request.
You know when the user presses the button I want to make sure that I immediately show this video on
the screen to let them know.
Yeah we are we are showing the spinner we are trying to plug you in right now.
You know we want to give our user that feedback.
So inside of an button press I will want to update my state to have loading of true so that we can remember
the component and show the spinner instead of the button.
So to update our piece of loading state I do not need to create a separate set state call.
I can change as many variables on my state object as I want.
Inside of a single set state call.
So I will also pass in here loading of true.
So the instant that a user presses the button we're going to clear out any existing errors that are
on the screen.
And we're also going to flip this loading flag to true.
Now the last thing we have to do is figure out inside of our render method whether or not we should
show this button or the spinners.
So that's the last thing we have to do here.
Whenever I kind of do this conditional a rendering of sorts you know either show this or show that I
like to extract this logic to a separate helper method to make the decision for me.
So I'm going to create another helper method called render button and inside of here we will either
return some amount of GSX to show the spinner or we will show some amount of GSX to show the button
tag.
So I will say if this state.
Loading.
So if this state uploading is true because remember this is a Boolean right here so we don't have to
do like equals equals equals true.
We don't have to do that it can be just the start state of loading.
Then I want to return my spinner and I have not yet imported my spinner but I will in just a second
here.
I also make sure the spinner is small something to pass in a size prop of small number we wired up this
the size prop just a moment ago.
So if I'm currently loading return the spinner.
Otherwise I want to return my button tag.
So right here we'll return the button.
So you know scrolling down to the button and we're going to cut and paste it up.
So here's my button.
I'm going to cut it and I'm going to scroll back up to my method and then the return statement I'll
place the button here.
Now notice that I'm using.
And if you I could be using if else statement here.
So I could say if this start States uploading else do this.
I kind of like this different syntax here and it's different pattern where I say if some condition return
immediately and you know with this object.
Otherwise just return this object by default.
So it's really up to you.
This can be if else I kind of like this other patterns that it's the last thing we have to do is make
sure that we call this render button method from inside of our render method.
So going to scroll back down all the way to our last section here and I'm going to call this dot render
button like zone.
So we haven't really done a lot of this before but we absolutely can have helper methods that return
some amount of GSX and then cull those from within our render method.
And that's exactly what we're doing here.
I've got this rendered bet round rendered button method that will return some amount of GSX and I can
call it directly from within my existing other block of GSX and mean as a matter of fact we can compose
blocks of GSX out of as many Methley are rendered calls or what method calls has we want.
Excuse me.
So we can very freely use functions all over the place to compose our render method.
All right.
I think the last thing we have to do is make sure that we import the spinner component because we've
still not done that.
So at the very top I'm going to find my import statement from our common directory and I'm also going
to import Spener.
OK so I think it's time for a little bit of a test now.
You know flip over the simulator and o'lantern some credentials.
And then I will log in and fantastic we get that nice spinner there to let our user know hey just know
something's in progress here we are currently attempting to log in.
So this is great.
Now the only thing we are doing now is we are not handling the case in which the request actually succeeds
or fails right at some point in time.
The spinner has to go away.
So we need to make sure that at some point we hide the spinner from the screen.
So let's take care of that in the next section.